trunk/Utils/PmmlTestTool/README.md, before:

**Introduction**

This project contains a simple application that can be used by those that have some familiarity with the pmml source providers (e.g., R/Rattle, KNIME, RapidMiner, SAS) and consumers (KNIME, Zementis' Adapa).

This tool *does not* use Kamanja, but allows the user to quickly test their generated pmml model from their model development environment.


**Running the PmmlTestTool**

Assuming that you have cataloged the message as described in the **Introduction**, you would use the following command to execute run the tool:

    jar -Dlog4j.configurationFile=file:<KAMANJA_HOME>/bin/log4j2.xml -jar KAMANJA_HOME>/bin/PmmlTestTool-1.0 --pmml <path to your pmml file> --msg msgNamespace.msgName --dataset <path to your dataset>

This is pretty straight forward.  The only element that might be confusing is the --msg value.  The *msgNamespace.msgName* is taken from the message declaration.  In the Iris example in the **Introduction**, this value would be "system.irismsg".  Note that the namespace and the name are totally described by this. If desired, your namespace could look very much like a java or scala namespace (e.g., *com.yourcompany.kamanja.msg*) making your name be *com.yourcompany.kamanja.msg.irismsg*

Executing this tool with the same command can be done over and over.  It is idempotent.  What happens is that the model is added, the data is pushed to the engine, the engine loads your model, and gives all of the data from each line of your dataset to the model.  After the model dataset is consumed, a respectful time is waited (5 seconds by default), and then the model is deleted from Kamanja, putting the script back to a ready state for resubmitting the same command.

The full syntax for the command is:

	jar -Dlog4j.configurationFile=file:<KAMANJA_HOME>/bin/log4j2.xml -jar KAMANJA_HOME>/bin/PmmlTestTool-1.0 
			--pmmlSrc <path to your pmml file> 
			--dataset <path to your dataset>
      [--separator <any of {"\t", ";", ","}> ... default is ","]
      [--omitInputs ... if supplied, only output and target fields are emitted]


**Sample Execution**

export KAMANJA_SRCDIR=/home/rich/github/dev/KAMANJA-366/kamanja/trunk
export LOG4J_HOME=$KAMANJA_SRCDIR/Utils/PmmlTestTool/src/main/resources
export ipport=8998
cd $KAMANJA_SRCDIR

$KAMANJA_SRCDIR/Utils/PmmlTestTool/target/PmmlTestTool-1.0 --pmmlSrc $KAMANJA_SRCDIR/Utils/PmmlTestTool/src/main/resources/metadata/model/KNIME/DecisionTreeEnsembleIris.pmml --dataset $KAMANJA_SRCDIR/Utils/PmmlTestTool/src/main/resources/data/iris.raw.csv | wc -l

$KAMANJA_SRCDIR/Utils/PmmlTestTool/target/PmmlTestTool-1.0 --pmmlSrc $KAMANJA_SRCDIR/Utils/PmmlTestTool/src/main/resources/metadata/model/KNIME/DecisionTreeEnsembleIris.pmml --dataset $KAMANJA_SRCDIR/Utils/PmmlTestTool/src/main/resources/data/iris.raw.csv --omitInputs >/tmp/results.txt

#java -Xdebug -Xrunjdwp:transport=dt_socket,address="$ipport",server=y -Dlog4j.configurationFile=file:$KAMANJA_HOME/config/log4j2.xml -jar $KAMANJA_SRCDIR/Utils/PmmlTestTool/target/PmmlTestTool-1.0 --pmmlSrc $KAMANJA_SRCDIR/Utils/PmmlTestTool/src/main/resources/metadata/model/KNIME/DecisionTreeEnsembleIris.pmml --dataset $KAMANJA_SRCDIR/Utils/PmmlTestTool/src/main/resources/data/iris.raw.csv --omitInputs >/tmp/results.txt

Commit message:

1.3.3.Test add version to SimplePmmlTestTool

trunk/Utils/PmmlTestTool/README.md, after:

**Introduction**

This project contains a simple application that can be used by those that have some familiarity with the pmml source providers (e.g., R/Rattle, KNIME, RapidMiner, SAS) and consumers (KNIME, Zementis' Adapa).

This tool *does not* use Kamanja, but allows the user to quickly test their generated pmml model from their model development environment.

**Command Semantics**
  
Usage: org.kamanja.pmml.testtool.SimplePmmlTestTool [options]
  Options:
  * --dataset
       CSV dataset file path
    --omitInputs
       if supplied, only emit target and output fields
       Default: false
    --output
       Output CSV file
       Default: stdout
  * --pmmlSrc
       PMML file path
    --separator
       CSV cell separator character
    --version
       print version and exit
       Default: false

The arguments are not unlike what one might use in the authoring tool (e.g., R/Rattle, RapidMiner, KNIME, etc.) to train your model.  Currently only CSV datasets are supported, which all has field names matching the DataField inputs in the model in its first line.  The delimiter can be changed to any of {"\t", ";", ","}. 

It will by default print the DataField inputs of your pmml model followed the target and any output fields that the model describes.  The inputs can be eliminated (score and outputs only) with the --omitInputs option.

You can optionally specify an output file path to collect your scores.  By default, however, it just prints to the stdout (your console) where you can redirect to a file or pipe to another process... perhaps comparing your expectations generated by the authoring tool with the results from the component that Kamanja utilizes.  See the examples in the **Sample Execution** section.

**Sample Execution**

export KAMANJA_SRCDIR=/path/to/your/kamanja/trunk
export LOG4J_HOME=$KAMANJA_SRCDIR/Utils/PmmlTestTool/src/main/resources
export ipport=8998
export KAMANJA_HOME=/path/to/your/kamanja/installation
cd $KAMANJA_SRCDIR

$KAMANJA_SRCDIR/Utils/PmmlTestTool/target/PmmlTestTool-1.0 --pmmlSrc $KAMANJA_SRCDIR/Utils/PmmlTestTool/src/main/resources/metadata/model/KNIME/DecisionTreeEnsembleIris.pmml --dataset $KAMANJA_SRCDIR/Utils/PmmlTestTool/src/main/resources/data/iris.raw.csv | wc -l

$KAMANJA_SRCDIR/Utils/PmmlTestTool/target/PmmlTestTool-1.0 --pmmlSrc $KAMANJA_SRCDIR/Utils/PmmlTestTool/src/main/resources/metadata/model/KNIME/DecisionTreeEnsembleIris.pmml --dataset $KAMANJA_SRCDIR/Utils/PmmlTestTool/src/main/resources/data/iris.raw.csv --omitInputs >/tmp/results.txt

If you wish to debug the tool, try this and attach your debugger to the IP Port you specify. For example,

java -Xdebug -Xrunjdwp:transport=dt_socket,address="$ipport",server=y -Dlog4j.configurationFile=file:$KAMANJA_HOME/config/log4j2.xml -jar $KAMANJA_SRCDIR/Utils/PmmlTestTool/target/PmmlTestTool-1.0 --pmmlSrc $KAMANJA_SRCDIR/Utils/PmmlTestTool/src/main/resources/metadata/model/KNIME/DecisionTreeEnsembleIris.pmml --dataset $KAMANJA_SRCDIR/Utils/PmmlTestTool/src/main/resources/data/iris.raw.csv --omitInputs >/tmp/results.txt
